docs/messaging/messaging.md, before:

# AngularFireMessaging

> The FCM JavaScript API lets you receive notification messages in web apps running in browsers that support the Push API.

### AngularFireMessaging is not compatible with the Angular Service Worker

If you are using the Angular Service Worker, you are not currently able to use AngularFireMessaging.
If you'd like this feature please add your 👍 to [this issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/34352).

Your alternatives are to use
- [WorkboxJS](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/)
- The Firebase Messaging Service Worker, which is detailed below

### Import the `NgModule`

Push Notifications for AngularFire are contained in the `@angular/fire/messaging` module namespace. Import the `AngularFireMessagingModule` in your `NgModule`. This sets up the `AngularFireMessaging` service for dependency injection.

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { AngularFireModule } from '@angular/fire';
import { AngularFireMessagingModule } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { environment } from '../environments/environment';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(environment.firebase),
    AngularFireMessagingModule
  ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

### Setting up the Firebase Messaging Service Worker

There are two parts to Firebase Messaging, a Service Worker and the DOM API. AngularFireMessaging allows you to request permission, get tokens, delete tokens, and subscribe to messages on the DOM side. To register to receive notifications you need to set up the Service Worker. [The official Firebase documentation for setting up the details exactly how to do that](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/client). 

You can either use the `firebase-messaging-sw.js` file provided in the docs or you can set your own Service Worker to import that script. Make sure to set up your `angular.json` file to copy over the Service Worker file:

```json
  "assets": [
    "assets",
    "favicon.ico",
    "firebase-messaging-sw.js",
    "manifest.json"
  ],
```

[Warning] Remember update the `firebase-messaging-sw.js` everytime you update the `firebase` in package.json. The missmatch version could lead to unable to receive notification in `foreground`, you can create your `firebase-messaging-sw.js` like this:

```js
// Give the service worker access to Firebase Messaging.
// Note that you can only use Firebase Messaging here, other Firebase libraries
// are not available in the service worker.
importScripts('https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/[the number of version matching with firebase in package.json]/firebase-app.js');
importScripts('https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/[for example: 7.16.1]/firebase-messaging.js');

// Initialize the Firebase app in the service worker by passing in the
// messagingSenderId.

firebase.initializeApp({
    apiKey: '<your-key>',
    authDomain: '<your-project-authdomain>',
    databaseURL: '<your-database-URL>',
    projectId: '<your-project-id>',
    storageBucket: '<your-storage-bucket>',
    messagingSenderId: '<your-messaging-sender-id>'
});

// Retrieve an instance of Firebase Messaging so that it can handle background
// messages.
const messaging = firebase.messaging();


```

### Requesting permission

Once you have the Firebase Messaging Service Worker set up and installed, you need to request permission to send a user notifications. While the browser will popup a UI for you, it is highly recommend to ask the user for permission with a custom UI and only ask when it makes sense. If you blindly ask for permission, you have an extremely high chance of getting denied or blocked.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestPermission
      .subscribe(
        () => { console.log('Permission granted!'); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

Once you have the permission of the user, you need their token. You can do this with the `getToken` observable or the `tokenChanges` observable. The `tokenChanges` observable listens for token refreshes whereas the `getToken` observable is a one-time call.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { mergeMapTo } from 'rxjs/operators';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestPermission
      .pipe(mergeMapTo(this.afMessaging.tokenChanges))
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Permission granted! Save to the server!', token); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

Once you have a user's token, you need to save it to the server in order to send them notifications in response to events. Let's say you want to send a push each time a user sends a chat message. Once a user grants permission, you can send the token to the Realtime Database or Cloud Firestore and associate it with a unique id, like a Firebase Auth UID. You can then create a Cloud Function trigger that looks up the user's token when a chat message is created.

### Shortcutting token requests

An easier way of requesting permission and getting tokens is with the `requestToken` observable. It combines the two steps above into one observable.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestToken
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Permission granted! Save to the server!', token); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

The `requestToken` observable uses the `tokenChanges` observable to listen to refreshes.

### Deleting tokens

Need to delete a user's token? Not a problem.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { mergeMap } from 'rxjs/operators';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="deleteMyToken()">
    Delete my token
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  deleteToken() {
    this.afMessaging.getToken
      .pipe(mergeMap(token => this.afMessaging.deleteToken(token)))
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Token deleted!'); },
      );
  }
}
```

The code above requests the current user's token and passes it to the `deleteToken()` observable.

### Subscribing to foreground messages

Once you have a user's token and they are subscribed, you can listen to messages in the foreground. The Firebase Messaging Service Worker handles background push notifications.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="listen()">
    Get notified!
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  listen() {
    this.afMessaging.messages
      .subscribe((message) => { console.log(message); });
  }
}
```

### Sending notifications

[Sending a notification](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/first-message) requires a call to a server. You can do this directly with an HTTP call or you can even build a Cloud Function to do this in response to an event. A Cloud Function trigger is ideal because you have trusted access to the database and can securely look up tokens to send to the right user. If you want to send push notifications via HTTP requests you'll need to secure the API call. This is usually done with a Firebase Auth UID. On the server you can verify the UID with the Firebase Admin SDK and allow access to get a user's push id.

The [Firebase Admin SDK has helper functions for sending notifications](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/admin/send-messages) to the user and subscribing them to topics, which [simplifies sending grouped messages](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/admin/manage-topic-subscriptions).

Commit message:

docs(fcm): Better messaging about NGSW compat (#2732)
I think we all love Angular and if there is an Angular-ish way of using service workers together with this great AngularFire package, it should be noted here. Initially I got really stuck figuring out workbox. While it is very powerfull, but also time consuming. So I recommend giving the reader a bit more comfort about the potential/opportunities using AngularFire.

Co-authored-by: James Daniels <jamesdaniels@google.com>

docs/messaging/messaging.md, after:

# AngularFireMessaging

> The FCM JavaScript API lets you receive notification messages in web apps running in browsers that support the Push API.

### AngularFireMessaging is not out-of-the-box compatible with the Angular Service Worker

If you are using the Angular Service Worker, you are not currently able to use AngularFireMessaging out-of-the-box
If you'd like this feature please add your 👍 to [this issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/34352).

Your alternatives are to use
- [WorkboxJS](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/workbox/)
- Follow the discussion in this [this issue](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/34352) and [here](https://github.com/angular/angularfire/discussions/1923), manually registering the Angular Service Worker
- The Firebase Messaging Service Worker, which is detailed below

### Import the `NgModule`

Push Notifications for AngularFire are contained in the `@angular/fire/messaging` module namespace. Import the `AngularFireMessagingModule` in your `NgModule`. This sets up the `AngularFireMessaging` service for dependency injection.

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { AngularFireModule } from '@angular/fire';
import { AngularFireMessagingModule } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { environment } from '../environments/environment';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(environment.firebase),
    AngularFireMessagingModule
  ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class AppModule {}
```

### Setting up the Firebase Messaging Service Worker

There are two parts to Firebase Messaging, a Service Worker and the DOM API. AngularFireMessaging allows you to request permission, get tokens, delete tokens, and subscribe to messages on the DOM side. To register to receive notifications you need to set up the Service Worker. [The official Firebase documentation for setting up the details exactly how to do that](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/client). 

You can either use the `firebase-messaging-sw.js` file provided in the docs or you can set your own Service Worker to import that script. Make sure to set up your `angular.json` file to copy over the Service Worker file:

```json
  "assets": [
    "assets",
    "favicon.ico",
    "firebase-messaging-sw.js",
    "manifest.json"
  ],
```

[Warning] Remember update the `firebase-messaging-sw.js` everytime you update the `firebase` in package.json. The missmatch version could lead to unable to receive notification in `foreground`, you can create your `firebase-messaging-sw.js` like this:

```js
// Give the service worker access to Firebase Messaging.
// Note that you can only use Firebase Messaging here, other Firebase libraries
// are not available in the service worker.
importScripts('https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/[the number of version matching with firebase in package.json]/firebase-app.js');
importScripts('https://www.gstatic.com/firebasejs/[for example: 7.16.1]/firebase-messaging.js');

// Initialize the Firebase app in the service worker by passing in the
// messagingSenderId.

firebase.initializeApp({
    apiKey: '<your-key>',
    authDomain: '<your-project-authdomain>',
    databaseURL: '<your-database-URL>',
    projectId: '<your-project-id>',
    storageBucket: '<your-storage-bucket>',
    messagingSenderId: '<your-messaging-sender-id>'
});

// Retrieve an instance of Firebase Messaging so that it can handle background
// messages.
const messaging = firebase.messaging();


```

### Requesting permission

Once you have the Firebase Messaging Service Worker set up and installed, you need to request permission to send a user notifications. While the browser will popup a UI for you, it is highly recommend to ask the user for permission with a custom UI and only ask when it makes sense. If you blindly ask for permission, you have an extremely high chance of getting denied or blocked.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestPermission
      .subscribe(
        () => { console.log('Permission granted!'); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

Once you have the permission of the user, you need their token. You can do this with the `getToken` observable or the `tokenChanges` observable. The `tokenChanges` observable listens for token refreshes whereas the `getToken` observable is a one-time call.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { mergeMapTo } from 'rxjs/operators';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestPermission
      .pipe(mergeMapTo(this.afMessaging.tokenChanges))
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Permission granted! Save to the server!', token); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

Once you have a user's token, you need to save it to the server in order to send them notifications in response to events. Let's say you want to send a push each time a user sends a chat message. Once a user grants permission, you can send the token to the Realtime Database or Cloud Firestore and associate it with a unique id, like a Firebase Auth UID. You can then create a Cloud Function trigger that looks up the user's token when a chat message is created.

### Shortcutting token requests

An easier way of requesting permission and getting tokens is with the `requestToken` observable. It combines the two steps above into one observable.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="requestPermission()">
    Hello this is a chat app. You should let us send you notifications for this reason.
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  requestPermission() {
    this.afMessaging.requestToken
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Permission granted! Save to the server!', token); },
        (error) => { console.error(error); },  
      );
  }
}
```

The `requestToken` observable uses the `tokenChanges` observable to listen to refreshes.

### Deleting tokens

Need to delete a user's token? Not a problem.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';
import { mergeMap } from 'rxjs/operators';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="deleteMyToken()">
    Delete my token
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  deleteToken() {
    this.afMessaging.getToken
      .pipe(mergeMap(token => this.afMessaging.deleteToken(token)))
      .subscribe(
        (token) => { console.log('Token deleted!'); },
      );
  }
}
```

The code above requests the current user's token and passes it to the `deleteToken()` observable.

### Subscribing to foreground messages

Once you have a user's token and they are subscribed, you can listen to messages in the foreground. The Firebase Messaging Service Worker handles background push notifications.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFireMessaging } from '@angular/fire/messaging';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-root',
  template: `
  <button (click)="listen()">
    Get notified!
  </button>
  `
})
export class AppComponent {
  constructor(private afMessaging: AngularFireMessaging) { }
  listen() {
    this.afMessaging.messages
      .subscribe((message) => { console.log(message); });
  }
}
```

### Sending notifications

[Sending a notification](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/js/first-message) requires a call to a server. You can do this directly with an HTTP call or you can even build a Cloud Function to do this in response to an event. A Cloud Function trigger is ideal because you have trusted access to the database and can securely look up tokens to send to the right user. If you want to send push notifications via HTTP requests you'll need to secure the API call. This is usually done with a Firebase Auth UID. On the server you can verify the UID with the Firebase Admin SDK and allow access to get a user's push id.

The [Firebase Admin SDK has helper functions for sending notifications](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/admin/send-messages) to the user and subscribing them to topics, which [simplifies sending grouped messages](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/admin/manage-topic-subscriptions).
