docs/1-install-and-setup.md, before:

# 1. Installation and Setup

> Getting started with AngularFire2 is easy with the [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli). Follow the 10 steps below to get started. Don't worry, we're always working to make this shorter.

**The setups below use the Webpack branch of the [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli).**

### 0. Prerequisites

You need the Angular CLI, typings, and TypeScript 2.0. TypeScript 2.0 is required for AngularFire2.

```bash
npm install -g angular-cli@webpack 
# or install locally
npm install angular-cli@webpack --save-dev
# make sure you have typings installed
npm install -g typings 
npm install -g typescript@2.0.2
```

Verify you have the correct version installed by running `ng -v` and ensuring that you see `angular-cli: 1.x.x-beta.x-webpack.x`. If not, you may need to do the following:

```bash
# if you have the wrong cli version only
npm uninstall -g angular-cli

# reinstall clean version
npm install -g angular-cli@webpack 
```


### 1. Create a new project

```bash
ng new <project-name>
cd <project-name>
```

The Angular CLI's `new` command will set up the latest Angular build in a new project structure.

### 2. Test your Setup

```bash
ng serve
open http://localhost:4200
```

You should see a message that says *App works!*

### 3. Install AngularFire 2 and Firebase

```bash
npm install angularfire2 firebase --save
```

Now that you have a new project setup, install AngularFire 2 and Firebase from npm.

### 4. Setup @NgModule

Open `/src/app/app.module.ts`, inject the Firebase providers, and specify your Firebase configuration. 
This can be found in your project at [the Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com):

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { AngularFireModule } from 'angularfire2';

// Must export the config
export const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "<your-key>",
  authDomain: "<your-project-authdomain>",
  databaseURL: "<your-database-URL>",
  storageBucket: "<your-storage-bucket>"
};

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(firebaseConfig)
  ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class MyAppModule {}

```

### 5. Inject AngularFire

Open `/src/app/app.component.ts`, and make sure to modify/delete any tests to get the sample working (tests are still important, you know):

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFire, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2';

@Component({
  moduleId: module.id,
  selector: 'root-app',
  templateUrl: 'app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['app.component.css']
})
export class <MyApp>Component {
  constructor(af: AngularFire) {
    
  }
}

```

### 6. Bind to a list

In `/src/app/app.component.ts`:

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFire, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2';

@Component({
  moduleId: module.id,
  selector: 'root-app',
  templateUrl: 'app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  items: FirebaseListObservable<any[]>;
  constructor(af: AngularFire) {
    this.items = af.database.list('items');
  }
}
```

Open `/src/app/app.component.html`:

```html
<ul>
  <li class="text" *ngFor="let item of items | async">
    {{item.$value}}
  </li>
</ul>
```

### 6. Run your app

```bash
ng serve
```

Run the serve command and go to `localhost:4200` in your browser.

And that's it! If it totally borke, file an issue and let us know.

###[Next Step: Retrieving data as objects](2-retrieving-data-as-objects.md)

### Troubleshooting

#### Cannot find namespace 'firebase'.

If you run into this error while trying to invoke `ng serve`, open `src/tsconfig.json` and add the "types" array as follows:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    ...
    "typeRoots": [
      "../node_modules/@types"
    ],
    
    // ADD THIS
    "types": [
      "firebase"
    ]
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Update Pre-requisities and troubleshooting section
Updated troubleshooting section to notify the "require" error, while invoking ng serve and 
modified pre-requisites section to update the order in which angular-cli version is checked.

docs/1-install-and-setup.md, after:

# 1. Installation and Setup

> Getting started with AngularFire2 is easy with the [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli). Follow the 10 steps below to get started. Don't worry, we're always working to make this shorter.

**The setups below use the Webpack branch of the [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli).**

### 0. Prerequisites

Before you start installing AngularFire2, make sure you have correct version of angular-cli installed. 
To verify run the command `ng -v` and ensure you see `angular-cli: 1.x.x-beta.x-webpack.x`.

If not, you may need to do the following:

```bash
# if you have the wrong cli version only
npm uninstall -g angular-cli

# reinstall clean version
npm install -g angular-cli@webpack 
```

You need the Angular CLI (you already got above), typings, and TypeScript 2.0. TypeScript 2.0 is required for AngularFire2.

```bash
npm install -g angular-cli@webpack  
# or install locally
npm install angular-cli@webpack --save-dev
# make sure you have typings installed
npm install -g typings 
npm install -g typescript@2.0.2
```

### 1. Create a new project

```bash
ng new <project-name>
cd <project-name>
```

The Angular CLI's `new` command will set up the latest Angular build in a new project structure.

### 2. Test your Setup

```bash
ng serve
open http://localhost:4200
```

You should see a message that says *App works!*

### 3. Install AngularFire 2 and Firebase

```bash
npm install angularfire2 firebase --save
```

Now that you have a new project setup, install AngularFire 2 and Firebase from npm.

### 4. Setup @NgModule

Open `/src/app/app.module.ts`, inject the Firebase providers, and specify your Firebase configuration. 
This can be found in your project at [the Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com):

```ts
import { BrowserModule } from '@angular/platform-browser';
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
import { AngularFireModule } from 'angularfire2';

// Must export the config
export const firebaseConfig = {
  apiKey: "<your-key>",
  authDomain: "<your-project-authdomain>",
  databaseURL: "<your-database-URL>",
  storageBucket: "<your-storage-bucket>"
};

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(firebaseConfig)
  ],
  declarations: [ AppComponent ],
  bootstrap: [ AppComponent ]
})
export class MyAppModule {}

```

### 5. Inject AngularFire

Open `/src/app/app.component.ts`, and make sure to modify/delete any tests to get the sample working (tests are still important, you know):

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFire, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2';

@Component({
  moduleId: module.id,
  selector: 'root-app',
  templateUrl: 'app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['app.component.css']
})
export class <MyApp>Component {
  constructor(af: AngularFire) {
    
  }
}

```

### 6. Bind to a list

In `/src/app/app.component.ts`:

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { AngularFire, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2';

@Component({
  moduleId: module.id,
  selector: 'root-app',
  templateUrl: 'app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent {
  items: FirebaseListObservable<any[]>;
  constructor(af: AngularFire) {
    this.items = af.database.list('items');
  }
}
```

Open `/src/app/app.component.html`:

```html
<ul>
  <li class="text" *ngFor="let item of items | async">
    {{item.$value}}
  </li>
</ul>
```

### 6. Run your app

```bash
ng serve
```

Run the serve command and go to `localhost:4200` in your browser.

And that's it! If it totally borke, file an issue and let us know.

###[Next Step: Retrieving data as objects](2-retrieving-data-as-objects.md)

### Troubleshooting

#### 1. Cannot find namespace 'firebase'.

If you run into this error while trying to invoke `ng serve`, open `src/tsconfig.json` and add the "types" array as follows:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    ...
    "typeRoots": [
      "../node_modules/@types"
    ],
    
    // ADD THIS
    "types": [
      "firebase"
    ]
  }
}
```

#### 2. Cannot find name 'require'.

If you run into this error while trying to invoke `ng serve`, open `src/typings.d.ts` and add the following two entries as follows:

```bash
declare var require: any;
declare var module: any;
```
