docs/database.md, before:

<img align="right" width="30%" src="images/database-illo_1x.png">

<small>
<a href="https://github.com/angular/angularfire">AngularFire</a> &#10097; <a href="../README.md#developer-guide">Developer Guide</a> &#10097; Realtime Database
</small>

# Realtime Database

Store and sync data with our NoSQL cloud database. Data is synced across all clients in realtime, and remains available when your app goes offline.

The Firebase Realtime Database is a cloud-hosted database. Data is stored as JSON and synchronized in realtime to every connected client. When you build cross-platform apps with our iOS, Android, and JavaScript SDKs, all of your clients share one Realtime Database instance and automatically receive updates with the newest data. [Learn more about the Realtime Database](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database).

## Dependency Injection

AngularFire allows you to work with the Realtime Database via Angular's Dependency Injection.

First provide a RTDB instance to AngularFire:

```ts
import { provideFirebaseApp, initializeApp } from '@angular/fire/app';
import { getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideFirebaseApp(() => initializeApp(environment.firebase)),
    provideDatabase(() => getDatabase()),
  ]
})
```

Next inject it into your component:

```ts
import { Component, inject } from '@angular/core';
import { Database } from '@angular/fire/database';

@Component({...})
extend class DepartmentComponent {
  private database: Database = inject(Database);

  constructor() {
  }
}
```

## Firebase API

AngularFire wraps the Firebase JS SDK to ensure proper functionality in Angular, while providing the same API.

Just change your imports from `import { ... } from 'firebase/database'` to `import { ... } from '@angular/fire/database'` and follow the offical documentation.

[Getting Started](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/web/start) | [API Reference](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/database)

## Convenience observables

AngularFire provides observables to allow convenient use of the Realtime Database with RXJS.

### `object`

The `object()` function creates an observable that emits object changes.

|                 |                                          |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `object(ref)`                               |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference`  |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                |

### `objectVal`

The `objectVal` function creates an observable that emits an array of object values, optionally with a mapped key.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `objectVal(query, options?)`                                              |
| **params**      | query: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { keyField?: `string` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<T>`                           |

### `list`

The `list()` function creates an observable that emits a sorted array for each child event change. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `list(ref, options?)`                                              |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange[]>`                           |

### `listVal`

The `listVal()` function creates an observable that emits an object mapped to its value, and optionally its key.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `listVal(query, options?)`                            |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { keyField?: `string` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<T \| null>`                                            |

### `stateChanges`

The `stateChanges()` function creates an observable that emits each time a change occurs at the reference or query passed. This is useful for tracking the changes in your list. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                      |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `stateChanges(ref, options?)`                                     |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options:? { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                          |

### `auditTrail`

The `auditTrail()` function creates an observable that emits the entire state trail. This is useful for debugging or replaying the state of a list in your app. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                      |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `auditTrail(ref, options?)`                                       |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange[]>`                          |

### `fromRef`

The `fromRef()` function creates an observable that emits reference changes.

|                 |                                          |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `fromRef(ref, event)`                              |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, event: `ListenEvent` |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                |

## Connecting the the emulator suite

```ts
import { connectDatabaseEmulator, getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideDatabase(() => {
      const database = getDatabase();
      connectDatabaseEmulator(database, 'localhost', 9000);
      return database;
    }),
  ]
})
```

## Working with multiple instances

```ts
import { provideFirebaseApp, FirebaseApp, initializeApp } from '@angular/fire/app';
import { getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

const DATABASE_SHARD_URLS = [
  'https://FOO.firebaseio.com',
  'https://BAR.firebaseio.com',
  'https://BAZ.firebaseio.com',
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideFirebaseApp(() => initializeApp(environment.firebase)),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[0])),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[1])),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[2])),
  ]
})
```

```ts
import { DatabaseInstances } from '@angular/fire/database';

constructor(databases: DatabaseInstances) {
 // databases => Database[]
}
```

Commit message:

Add updated docs for products, README and quick start
* Drop ng12 from the tests, JS SDK (typescript) broke, not work hunting for a good version IMO
* Skip prerender test on ng13, broken not worth hunting the flake IMO
* Add ng15 to the matrix, add upgrade to ng14 step
* Bump the version
* Add ng15 to the acceptable peers
* Add to README
* Contrib tests are failing on newer Node, we should look into but not block merging and cutting

docs/database.md, after:

<img align="right" width="30%" src="images/database-illo_1x.png">

<small>
<a href="https://github.com/angular/angularfire">AngularFire</a> &#10097; <a href="../README.md#developer-guide">Developer Guide</a> &#10097; Realtime Database
</small>

# Realtime Database

Store and sync data with our NoSQL cloud database. Data is synced across all clients in realtime, and remains available when your app goes offline.

The Firebase Realtime Database is a cloud-hosted database. Data is stored as JSON and synchronized in realtime to every connected client. When you build cross-platform apps with our iOS, Android, and JavaScript SDKs, all of your clients share one Realtime Database instance and automatically receive updates with the newest data. [Learn more about the Realtime Database](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database).

## Dependency Injection

As a prerequisite, ensure that `AngularFire` has been added to your project via
```bash
ng add @angular/fire
```

Provide an RTBD instance in the application's `NgModule` (`app.module.ts`):

```ts
import { provideFirebaseApp, initializeApp } from '@angular/fire/app';
import { getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideFirebaseApp(() => initializeApp(environment.firebase)),
    provideDatabase(() => getDatabase()),
  ]
})
```

Next inject it into your component:

```ts
import { Component, inject } from '@angular/core';
import { Database } from '@angular/fire/database';

@Component({...})
extend class DepartmentComponent {
  private database: Database = inject(Database);

  constructor() {
  }
}
```

## Firebase API

AngularFire wraps the Firebase JS SDK to ensure proper functionality in Angular, while providing the same API.

Just change your imports from `import { ... } from 'firebase/database'` to `import { ... } from '@angular/fire/database'` and follow the offical documentation.

[Getting Started](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/web/start) | [API Reference](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/database)

## Convenience observables

AngularFire provides observables to allow convenient use of the Realtime Database with RXJS.

### `object`

The `object()` function creates an observable that emits object changes.

|                 |                                          |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `object(ref)`                               |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference`  |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                |

### `objectVal`

The `objectVal` function creates an observable that emits an array of object values, optionally with a mapped key.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `objectVal(query, options?)`                                              |
| **params**      | query: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { keyField?: `string` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<T>`                           |

### `list`

The `list()` function creates an observable that emits a sorted array for each child event change. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `list(ref, options?)`                                              |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange[]>`                           |

### `listVal`

The `listVal()` function creates an observable that emits an object mapped to its value, and optionally its key.

|                 |                                                       |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `listVal(query, options?)`                            |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { keyField?: `string` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<T \| null>`                                            |

### `stateChanges`

The `stateChanges()` function creates an observable that emits each time a change occurs at the reference or query passed. This is useful for tracking the changes in your list. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                      |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `stateChanges(ref, options?)`                                     |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options:? { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                          |

### `auditTrail`

The `auditTrail()` function creates an observable that emits the entire state trail. This is useful for debugging or replaying the state of a list in your app. The optional `events` parameter will filter which child events populate the array.

|                 |                                                      |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `auditTrail(ref, options?)`                                       |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, options?: { events?: `ListenEvent[]` } |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange[]>`                          |

### `fromRef`

The `fromRef()` function creates an observable that emits reference changes.

|                 |                                          |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------|
| **function**    | `fromRef(ref, event)`                              |
| **params**      | ref: `Reference\|Query`, event: `ListenEvent` |
| **return**      | `Observable<QueryChange>`                |

## Connecting the the emulator suite

```ts
import { connectDatabaseEmulator, getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideDatabase(() => {
      const database = getDatabase();
      connectDatabaseEmulator(database, 'localhost', 9000);
      return database;
    }),
  ]
})
```

## Working with multiple instances

```ts
import { provideFirebaseApp, FirebaseApp, initializeApp } from '@angular/fire/app';
import { getDatabase, provideDatabase } from '@angular/fire/database';

const DATABASE_SHARD_URLS = [
  'https://FOO.firebaseio.com',
  'https://BAR.firebaseio.com',
  'https://BAZ.firebaseio.com',
];

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    provideFirebaseApp(() => initializeApp(environment.firebase)),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[0])),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[1])),
    provideDatabase((app: FirebaseApp) => getDatabase(app, DATABASE_SHARD_URLS[2])),
  ]
})
```

```ts
import { DatabaseInstances } from '@angular/fire/database';

constructor(databases: DatabaseInstances) {
 // databases => Database[]
}
```
