docs/version-4-upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrading to AngularFire2 4.0

AngularFire2 4.0 is a refactor of the AngularFire2 package which implements
@NgModule, simplifies authentication, and better supports Angular 4.

### Removing `AngularFire` for Modularity

Prior to 4.0, AngularFire2 did not take advantage of the Firebase SDK's modularity for tree shaking. The `AngularFire` service has now been removed and the library broken up into smaller @NgModules:

* `AngularFireModule`
* `AngularFireDatabaseModule`
* `AngularFireAuthModule`

When upgrading, replace calls to `AngularFire.database` and `AngularFire.auth` with `AngularFireDatabase` and `AngularFireAuth` respectively.

```typescript
constructor(af: AngularFire) {
  af.database.list('foo');
  af.auth;
}
```
Should now be:

```typescript
constructor(db: AngularFireDatabase, afAuth: AngularFireAuth) {
  db.list('foo');
  afAuth.authState;
}
```

### Simplified Authentication API

In 4.0 we've reduced the complexity of the auth module by providing only [`firebase.User`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/firebase.User) observers (`AngularFireAuth.authState`, `AngularFireAuth.idToken`) and cutting the methods that were wrapping the Firebase SDK.


```typescript
import { AngularFireAuth } from 'angularfire2/auth';
// Do not import from 'firebase' as you'd lose the tree shaking benefits
import * as firebase from 'firebase/app';
...

user: Observable<firebase.User>;
constructor(afAuth: AngularFireAuth) {
  this.user = afAuth.authState; // only triggered on sign-in/out (for old behavior use .idToken)
}
```

AngularFire2 exposes the raw Firebase Auth object via `AngularFireAuth.auth`. For actions like login, logout, user creation, etc. you should use the [methods available to `firebase.auth.Auth`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/firebase.auth.Auth).

While convenient, the pre-configured login feature added unneeded complexity. `AngularFireModule.initializeApp` no longer takes a default sign in method. Sign in should be done with the Firebase SDK via `firebase.auth.Auth`:

```typescript
login() {
  this.afAuth.auth.signInWithPopup(new firebase.auth.GoogleAuthProvider());
}
logout() {
  this.afAuth.auth.signOut();
}
```

### FirebaseListFactory and FirebaseObjectFactory API Changes

If you directly use `FirebaseListFactory` or `FirebaseObjectFactory` you will no longer be able to pass in a string, it will instead expect a Firebase database reference.

## Putting this all together

Here's an example of what AngularFire2 4.0 looks like:

```typescript
import { NgModule, Component } from '@angular/core';
import { Observable } from 'rxjs/Observable';
import { AngularFireModule } from 'angularfire2';
import { AngularFireDatabaseModule, AngularFireDatabase, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2/database';
import { AngularFireAuthModule, AngularFireAuth } from 'angularfire2/auth';
import { environment } from '../environments/environment';

// Do not import from 'firebase' as you'd lose the tree shaking benefits
import * as firebase from 'firebase/app';


@NgModule({
  declarations: [ App ],
  exports: [ App ],
  imports: [ 
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(environment.firebase, 'my-app'),
    AngularFireDatabaseModule,
    AngularFireAuthModule
  ],
  bootstrap[ App ]
})
export class MyModule { }

@Component({
  selector: 'my-app',
  template: `
    <div> {{ (items | async)? | json }} </div>
    <div> {{ (user | async)? | json }} </div>
    <button (click)="login()">Login</button>
    <button (click)="logout()">Logout</button>
  `
})
export class App {
  user: Observable<firebase.User>;
  items: FirebaseListObservable<any[]>;
  constructor(afAuth: AngularFireAuth, db: AngularFireDatabase) {
    this.user = afAuth.authState;
    this.items = db.list('items');
  }
  login() {
    this.afAuth.auth.signInWithPopup(new firebase.auth.GoogleAuthProvider());
  }
  logout() {
     this.afAuth.auth.signOut();
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add reference to #1158 'Proposal'
I wish I had read this prior to attempting to migrate.  It may just be that now that I have stumbled through the migration changes the "Proposal" makes good sense but it seems like a resource that would help others.  Much of the added goodness provided by these API changes need to be more fully explained and I think the proposal does a very good job in doing that, plus the comments section make a very good addition.  

I especially appreciated David's opening remark  "Breaking changes are not taken lightly. If we're going to change something, we're going to make it worth your while. Trust me, these new features are well worth it."  However with only the above migration doc to follow, I was cursing some unnamed person or persons long and hard over the past several days.   

I consider myself a skilled novice in all this RxJS-NgRx, like the majority of the folks who would be attempting this migration, and my feedback is that this was far from trivial search and replace.  The end result was much cleaner and I can say that you all have delivered on David's promise, but any additional documentation to assist is going to be very much appreciated.

docs/version-4-upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrading to AngularFire2 4.0

AngularFire2 4.0 is a refactor of the AngularFire2 package which implements
@NgModule, simplifies authentication, and better supports Angular 4.
For background on the motivations and implementation of these change you may refer to the for these API changes  [`Proposal`](https://github.com/angular/angularfire2/issues/1158). 

### Removing `AngularFire` for Modularity

Prior to 4.0, AngularFire2 did not take advantage of the Firebase SDK's modularity for tree shaking. The `AngularFire` service has now been removed and the library broken up into smaller @NgModules:

* `AngularFireModule`
* `AngularFireDatabaseModule`
* `AngularFireAuthModule`

When upgrading, replace calls to `AngularFire.database` and `AngularFire.auth` with `AngularFireDatabase` and `AngularFireAuth` respectively.

```typescript
constructor(af: AngularFire) {
  af.database.list('foo');
  af.auth;
}
```
Should now be:

```typescript
constructor(db: AngularFireDatabase, afAuth: AngularFireAuth) {
  db.list('foo');
  afAuth.authState;
}
```

### Simplified Authentication API

In 4.0 we've reduced the complexity of the auth module by providing only [`firebase.User`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/firebase.User) observers (`AngularFireAuth.authState`, `AngularFireAuth.idToken`) and cutting the methods that were wrapping the Firebase SDK.


```typescript
import { AngularFireAuth } from 'angularfire2/auth';
// Do not import from 'firebase' as you'd lose the tree shaking benefits
import * as firebase from 'firebase/app';
...

user: Observable<firebase.User>;
constructor(afAuth: AngularFireAuth) {
  this.user = afAuth.authState; // only triggered on sign-in/out (for old behavior use .idToken)
}
```

AngularFire2 exposes the raw Firebase Auth object via `AngularFireAuth.auth`. For actions like login, logout, user creation, etc. you should use the [methods available to `firebase.auth.Auth`](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/firebase.auth.Auth).

While convenient, the pre-configured login feature added unneeded complexity. `AngularFireModule.initializeApp` no longer takes a default sign in method. Sign in should be done with the Firebase SDK via `firebase.auth.Auth`:

```typescript
login() {
  this.afAuth.auth.signInWithPopup(new firebase.auth.GoogleAuthProvider());
}
logout() {
  this.afAuth.auth.signOut();
}
```

### FirebaseListFactory and FirebaseObjectFactory API Changes

If you directly use `FirebaseListFactory` or `FirebaseObjectFactory` you will no longer be able to pass in a string, it will instead expect a Firebase database reference.

## Putting this all together

Here's an example of what AngularFire2 4.0 looks like:

```typescript
import { NgModule, Component } from '@angular/core';
import { Observable } from 'rxjs/Observable';
import { AngularFireModule } from 'angularfire2';
import { AngularFireDatabaseModule, AngularFireDatabase, FirebaseListObservable } from 'angularfire2/database';
import { AngularFireAuthModule, AngularFireAuth } from 'angularfire2/auth';
import { environment } from '../environments/environment';

// Do not import from 'firebase' as you'd lose the tree shaking benefits
import * as firebase from 'firebase/app';


@NgModule({
  declarations: [ App ],
  exports: [ App ],
  imports: [ 
    AngularFireModule.initializeApp(environment.firebase, 'my-app'),
    AngularFireDatabaseModule,
    AngularFireAuthModule
  ],
  bootstrap[ App ]
})
export class MyModule { }

@Component({
  selector: 'my-app',
  template: `
    <div> {{ (items | async)? | json }} </div>
    <div> {{ (user | async)? | json }} </div>
    <button (click)="login()">Login</button>
    <button (click)="logout()">Logout</button>
  `
})
export class App {
  user: Observable<firebase.User>;
  items: FirebaseListObservable<any[]>;
  constructor(afAuth: AngularFireAuth, db: AngularFireDatabase) {
    this.user = afAuth.authState;
    this.items = db.list('items');
  }
  login() {
    this.afAuth.auth.signInWithPopup(new firebase.auth.GoogleAuthProvider());
  }
  logout() {
     this.afAuth.auth.signOut();
  }
}
```
